# Analyzing the formation of groups in a network adapting the modularity concept

It is known that nodes in a community are more likely to connect to other members of the same community than to nodes in other communities and that new nodes tend to connect to nodes with higher degree increasing their centrality and following preferential attachment.
It is possible the manipulation of the peripheral nodes (nodes with less centrality) annexation logic belonging to a specific group – not necessarily a community – avoiding the preferential attachment logic and favoring other nodes in the same group at the expense of nodes with greater centrality. This is called "strategic behavior". The group of peripheral nodes adopting the strategic behavior does not necessarily form a distinct community from the other nodes; rather, they are inserted in the community as peripheral nodes. Therefore, there is room to look for a modification of the methods for communities’ identification so that it is possible to identify the emergence of strategic groups.
The concept of networks modularity partially applies to the context described. In this paper, it is proposed a measure, adapted from the modularity concept, to test if this concept can identify the existence of strategic groups, assuming that the group of nodes adopting this strategic behavior is known. To build on this setting, a network was generated using a Stochastic Block Model (SBM) algorithm with two classes, in a way that in one of them (the strategic group) the nodes were linked with greater probability and there was no distinction in the probability of connections between classes, simulating this strategic behavior. Also, a method to identify this specific behavior based on the number of links inside the groups and between them during time is introduced. A computational simulation method was implemented to measure the adapted modularity and to model the method proposed here, to confirm the existence of the strategic group.

## Resultados 
